Blog - 5 A/B testing mistakes and how to avoid them (#5854)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/ab-testing-mistakes.md

  }

  // other checks
  ...

  if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-key') === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  return true
}
```

## 2. Only viewing results in aggregate

It's possible that the results of an experiment can show one outcome when analyzed at an aggregated level, but when analyzing the same data in subgroups, it reveals the opposite outcome. To understand this better, let's look at an example:

Suppose you are testing a change to your sign-up and onboarding flow. The change affects both desktop and mobile users. Your experiment results show the following:

* Control variant: 5,000 visitors, 500 conversions (10% conversion rate)
* Test variant: 5,000 visitors, 1000 conversions (20% conversion rate)

At first glance, the test variant seems to be the clear winner. However, breaking down the results into the desktop and mobile subgroups shows:

Desktop users:
* Control variant: 2,000 visitors, 400 conversions (20% conversion rate)
* Test variant: 2,000 visitors, 100 conversions (5% conversion rate)

Mobile users:
* Control variant: 3,000 visitors, 100 conversions (10% conversion rate)
* Test variant: 3,000 visitors, 900 conversions (30% conversion rate)

> It's clear now that while the test variant performed better for mobile users, it actually decreased desktop conversions! This phenomenon is known as [Simpson's paradox](https://medium.com/homeaway-tech-blog/simpsons-paradox-in-a-b-testing-93af7a2f3307).

Author: is this easy to read/parse? Perhaps I should try different formating?

This is bad since it's unclear why we're testing this change and why we expect it to increase purchases. As a result, it's not clear what we need to measure in this experiment. Do we only need to count button clicks? Or is there something else we need to measure?

Here's an improved version:

> Good hypothesis: User research showed that users are unsure of how to proceed to the checkout page. Changing the button's color will lead to more users noticing it and thus more people will proceed to the checkout page. This will then lead to more purchases.

It's now clear that we need to measure the following: 
* Button clicks, to show if the change in color leads to more people noticing the button
* Number of purchases, since more people arriving at the checkout page should mean more purchases

This also makes it easier to investigate the experiment results, especially when they are not what we expected. For example:
* If the color change didn't increase button clicks, the page may have a different issue.
* If the number of button clicks increased but the number of purchases did not, there may be an issue with the checkout page.

> ## 8. Over relying on A/B tests for decision-making

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 8. Relying too much on A/B tests for decision-making
```

Not everything that can be measured matters. Not everything that matters can be measured. It's important to remember that there can be other reasons for shipping things besides for metric changes, such as solving user pain points or creating enjoyable user experiences.

[Raquel](/handbook/company/team), one of our growth engineers here at PostHog, shares an example:

> We ran an experiment on our sign-up page to make our social login buttons more prominent (e.g., "Sign up with Google" and "Sign up with GitHub") instead of signing up with email and password. While more people signed up using Google and Github, overall sign-ups didn't increase and nor did activation. 
> 
> Ultimately, we decided to ship the change since we felt that social login lower frictions and provides a better user experience.

> 

Author: @raquelmsmith is this accurate?

Reviewer: Yes, though I'm not sure this is the best example for this point. A better example is a strategic change - we really like to A/B test everything that we can, but some things especially around company strategy (which are often times _bets_ more than anything) just have to be committed to without proper data. We're doing this (as a company, but growth is heavily involved in the switch due to the reliance on billing) as we move from a plans-based billing construct to a product-based one. 

Currently/in the past people would subscribe to a plan and get all features. But this made less sense as our product offering grew, so we're changing a lot around how our billing works to go for a multi-product strategy, where each product can be sub'd to separately. This makes sense but is also a bet because technically we could make things work with a plan-based construct. But, it's hard to test this, and since it's strategic it can't really be tested very well (strategy is a bet you make about the future, not just about today) so we don't really have tests lined up for this change specifically (though we will be testing parts of it, like the new UI to make conversion doesn't take a dive).

Author: Thanks! I think I'll leave this example, since its relatively easy to explain and I think quite a common scenario. There are ton of reasons to ship things that arent AB tests. Perhaps I should add a list here of reasons why you may ship without AB tests

---

> date: 2023-04-27

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2023-05-02
```

> title: "8 A/B testing mistakes and how to avoid them"

Reviewer 2: Trying to think of ways to punch up this headline. Some ideas:

- 8 dangerous A/B testing mistakes (and how to avoid them)
- 8 A/B testing mistakes every engineer should know
- 8 annoying A/B testing mistakes (and how to avoid them)
- 8 costly A/B testing mistakes (and how to avoid them)

I like the last couple – "dangerous" is too. The 2nd isn't too bad, either. Thoughts?

Author: Agree the punchline is boring. I like the "every engineer should know"

How about: "8 annoying A/B testing mistakes every engineer should know"

To understand how, let's look at an example: Say you're testing a new feature in your app that rewards users for completing a certain action. You mistakenly include users who have already completed the action in the experiment. Since they are not affected by the change, any metrics related to this action do not change, and thus the results for this experiment may not show a statistically significant change.

To avoid this mistake, make sure to first filter out ineligible users in your code before including them in your experiment. Below is an example of how to do this:

```js
// Incorrect. Will include unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {
  if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-key') === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks

  return true
}
```

```js
// Correct. Will exclude unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks

  if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-key') === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  return true
}
```

> ## 2. Only viewing results in aggregate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 2. Only viewing results in aggregate (aka Simpson's paradox)
```

> It's possible that the results of an experiment can show one outcome when analyzed at an aggregated level, but when analyzing the same data in subgroups, it reveals the opposite outcome. To understand this better, let's look at an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's possible an experiment can show one outcome when analyzed at an aggregated level, but another when the same data is analyzed by subgroups.
```

> Suppose you are testing a change to your sign-up and onboarding flow. The change affects both desktop and mobile users. Your experiment results show the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you are testing a change to your sign-up and onboarding flow. The change affects both desktop and mobile users. Your experiment results show the following:
```

| Variant         | Visitors | Conversions | Conversion Rate |
|-----------------|----------|-------------|-----------------|
| Control  | 5,000    | 500         | ❌ 10%             |
| Test     | 5,000    | 1,000       | ✅ 20%             |

At first glance, the test variant seems to be the clear winner. However, breaking down the results into the desktop and mobile subgroups shows:

| Device           | Variant          | Visitors | Conversions | Conversion Rate |
|-----------|------------------|----------|-------------|-----------------|
| 💻 Desktop   | Control   | 2,000    | 400         | ✅ 20%             |
|           | Test      | 2,000    | 100         | ❌ 5%              |
| 📱 Mobile    | Control   | 3,000    | 100         | ❌ 10%             |
|           | Test      | 3,000    | 900         | ✅ 30%             |

> It's clear now that while the test variant performed better for mobile users, it actually decreased desktop conversions. However, we missed this insight when we combined these metrics! This phenomenon is known as [Simpson's paradox](https://medium.com/homeaway-tech-blog/simpsons-paradox-in-a-b-testing-93af7a2f3307).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's now clear the test variant performed better for mobile users, but it decreased desktop conversions –  an insight we missed when we combined these metrics! This phenomenon is known as [Simpson's paradox](https://medium.com/homeaway-tech-blog/simpsons-paradox-in-a-b-testing-93af7a2f3307).
```

Depending on your app and experiment, here's a list of aggregate metrics you want to breakdown:

> * Device type, e.g., desktop or mobile, iOS or Android.
> * Geographic location.
> * Subscription or pricing tier.
> * Acquisition channel, e.g., organic search, paid ads, or referrals, 
> * User role or job function, e.g., manager, executive, or individual contributor.
> * User tenure
> * Business size, e.g., small, medium, or large.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* User tenure
* Geographic location
* Subscription or pricing tier
* Business size, e.g., small, medium, or large
* Device type, e.g., desktop or mobile, iOS or Android
* Acquisition channel, e.g., organic search, paid ads, or referrals, 
* User role or job function, e.g., manager, executive, or individual contributor.
```

Reviewer 2: A neat list is an easy to read list ;)

## 3. Conducting an experiment without a predetermined duration

> You may even fall victim to the "[peeking problem](https://gopractice.io/data/peeking-problem/)": when you check the intermediate results for statistical significance, make decisions based on them, and end your experiment too early. Without determining how long your experiment should run, you cannot differentiate between intermediate and final results.

Reviewer 2: When I first read this, I thought a sentence was missing from the start. It makes sense on second reading, but it's best you tweak the opening a little so readers aren't thrown off their rhythm.

> Alternatively, if you do not have enough statistical power (i.e., not enough users to obtain a significant result), you'll potentially waste weeks waiting for results. This is especially common in [group-targeted experiments](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you don't have enough statistical power (i.e., not enough users to obtain a significant result), you'll potentially waste weeks waiting for results. This is especially common in [group-targeted experiments](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests).
```

The solution is to use an A/B test running time calculator to determine if you have the required statistical power to run your experiment and for how long you should run your experiment. This is built into PostHog.

![Setting up a new experiment in PostHog includes a recommended running time calculator](../images/blog/ab-testing-mistakes/minimum-acceptable-improvement.png)
<Caption>Setting up a new experiment in PostHog includes a recommended running time calculator</Caption>

## 4. Running an experiment without testing it first

> Sometimes we are so eager to get results from our experiments that we jump straight into running it with all our users. This may be okay if everything is set up correctly, but if you've made a mistake, you may be unable to rerun your experiment. Let's look at why this is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sometimes we're so eager to get results from our experiments, we jump straight to running them with all our users. This may be okay if everything is set up correctly, but if you've made a mistake, you may be unable to rerun your experiment. Why? Let me explain.
```

Imagine you're running an experiment with a 50/50 split between control and test. You roll out the experiment to all your users, but a day after launch, you notice that your change is causing the app to crash for all test users. You immediately stop the experiment and fix the root cause of the crash. However, restarting the experiment now will produce unreliable results since many users have already seen your change.

To avoid this problem, you should first test your experiment with a small rollout (e.g., 5% of users) for a few days. Once you're confident everything works correctly, you can start the experiment with the remaining users.

> Here is a list of what to check during your test rollout:
> * No increase in crashes or other errors.
> * Logging is working correctly.
> * Use [session replays](/session-replay) to ensure your app is behaving as expected.  
> * Users are assigned to the control and test groups in the ratio you are expecting (e.g., 50/50).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a list of what to check during your test rollout:
* Logging is working correctly
* No increase in crashes or other errors
* Use [session replays](/session-replay) to ensure your app is behaving as expected
* Users are assigned to the control and test groups in the ratio you are expecting (e.g., 50/50).
```

## 5. Neglecting counter metrics

Counter metrics measure unintended negative side-effects in your experiments. If you do not monitor them, you may accidentally roll out changes that result in a worse user experience. 

> For example, say you're testing a change to your sign-up page. While the number of sign-ups may increase, you notice that time spent in your app decreases. In this case, it may indicate that your new sign-up page is misleading users about what your app does, resulting in more sign-ups but also more churn.

Reviewer 2: Could we add more examples here, maybe as a bullet point list?

## 6. Not accounting for seasonality

> Seasonal periods can cause significant changes in user behavior. People might be taking time off or focusing on different tasks. In a B2B context, seasonality can also affect the decision-making processes of businesses. For example, companies often have specific times of the year when they allocate budgets, review contracts, or make purchasing decisions. Conducting A/B tests during these periods can result in biased outcomes that may not represent typical user behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Seasonal periods can cause significant changes in user behavior. People might be taking time off, or focusing on different tasks. In a B2B context, seasonality can also affect the decision-making processes of businesses. For example, companies often have specific times of the year when they allocate budgets, review contracts, or make purchasing decisions. Conducting A/B tests during these periods can result in biased outcomes that may not represent typical user behavior.
```

Here is a list of seasonality periods to be mindful of:

> * Holiday seasons: e.g., Christmas and New Year's, July and August summer vacations.
> * Fiscal year-end: Companies typically review budgeting decisions and contract renewals during this period.
> * Seasonal sales cycles: Some industries, like retail or agriculture, have seasonal sales cycles. Be aware of these cycles if your target customers operate in such industries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Holiday seasons** – e.g., Christmas and New Year's, July and August summer vacations.
* **Fiscal year-end** – Companies typically review budgeting decisions and contract renewals during this period.
* **Seasonal sales cycles** – Some industries, like retail or agriculture, have seasonal sales cycles. Be aware of these cycles if your target customers operate in such industries.
```

## 7. Testing an unclear hypothesis

Having a clear definition of what you are testing and why you are testing it will help you determine which metrics to measure and analyze. To understand this better, let's look at an example of a bad hypothesis:

> > Bad Hypothesis: Changing the color of the "Proceed to checkout" button will increase purchases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Bad Hypothesis:** Changing the color of the "Proceed to checkout" button will increase purchases.
```

This is bad since it's unclear why we're testing this change and why we expect it to increase purchases. As a result, it's not clear what we need to measure in this experiment. Do we only need to count button clicks? Or is there something else we need to measure?

Here's an improved version:

> > Good hypothesis: User research showed that users are unsure of how to proceed to the checkout page. Changing the button's color will lead to more users noticing it and thus more people will proceed to the checkout page. This will then lead to more purchases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Good hypothesis:** User research showed that users are unsure of how to proceed to the checkout page. Changing the button's color will lead to more users noticing it and thus more people will proceed to the checkout page. This will then lead to more purchases.
```

It's now clear that we need to measure the following: 
* Button clicks, to show if the change in color leads to more people noticing the button
* Number of purchases, since more people arriving at the checkout page should mean more purchases

This also makes it easier to investigate the experiment results, especially when they are not what we expected. For example:
* If the color change didn't increase button clicks, the page may have a different issue.
* If the number of button clicks increased but the number of purchases did not, there may be an issue with the checkout page.

## 8. Relying too much on A/B tests for decision-making

> Not everything that can be measured matters. Not everything that matters can be measured. It's important to remember that there can be other reasons for shipping things besides for metric changes, such as solving user pain points or creating enjoyable user experiences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not everything that can be measured matters. Not everything that matters can be measured. It's important to remember that there can be other reasons for shipping things besides for metric changes, such as solving user pain points, or creating enjoyable user experiences.
```

[Raquel](/handbook/company/team), one of our growth engineers here at PostHog, shares an example:

> > We ran an experiment on our sign-up page to make our social login buttons more prominent (e.g., "Sign up with Google" and "Sign up with GitHub") instead of signing up with email and password. While more people signed up using Google and Github, overall sign-ups didn't increase and nor did activation. 
> > 
> > Ultimately, we decided to ship the change since we felt that social login lower frictions and provides a better user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> "We ran an experiment on our sign-up page to make our social login buttons more prominent (e.g., "Sign up with Google" and "Sign up with GitHub") instead of signing up with email and password. While more people signed up using Google and Github, overall sign-ups didn't increase, and nor did activation. Ultimately, we decided to ship the change since we felt that social login lowers friction, and provides a better user experience."
```

Reviewer 2: Love this example, btw.

---
date: 2023-04-27
title: "8 A/B testing mistakes and how to avoid them"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiments.jpeg

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
```
The current photo is an old style of hedgehog we don't use anymore, this is a new one.

featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags: 
  - Guides
  - Product metrics
---

> Making a mistake in an A/B test can have disastrous implications. At best, it means you've wasted weeks waiting for results that are not useful. At worst, it can lead you to make the wrong product decisions. This blog post will explore five common A/B testing mistakes to avoid to ensure successful experiments!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Making a mistake in an A/B test can have disastrous implications. At best, it means you've wasted weeks waiting for results that are not useful. At worst, it can lead you to make the wrong product decisions. This blog post will explore eight common A/B testing mistakes to avoid to ensure successful experiments!
```

## 1. Including unaffected users in your experiment

> Another common mistake in A/B testing is counting users in your experiment who aren't actually affected by the change you're testing. This can happen if you're not careful in how and when you assign users to the control and test groups. It dilutes your experiment results, making it harder to determine the impact of your changes. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The first common mistake in A/B testing is counting users in your experiment who aren't actually affected by the change you're testing. This can happen if you're not careful in how and when you assign users to the control and test groups. It dilutes your experiment results, making it harder to determine the impact of your changes. 
```

To understand how, let's look at an example: Say you're testing a new feature in your app that rewards users for completing a certain action. You mistakenly include users who have already completed the action in the experiment. Since they are not affected by the change, any metrics related to this action do not change, and thus the results for this experiment may not show a statistically significant change.

To avoid this mistake, make sure to first filter out ineligible users in your code before including them in your experiment. Below is an example of how to do this:

> ```javascript

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
```

// Incorrect. Will include unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {
  if (posthog.getFeatureFlag('experiment-key') === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks

>   ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  return true
}
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
```

// Correct. Will exclude unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks

>   ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Depending on your app and experiment, here's a list of aggregate metrics you want to breakdown:
* Device type, e.g., desktop or mobile, iOS or Android.
* Geographic location.
* Subscription or pricing tier.
* Acquisition channel, e.g., organic search, paid ads, or referrals, 
* User role or job function, e.g., manager, executive, or individual contributor.
* User tenure
* Business size, e.g., small, medium, or large.

## 3. Conducting an experiment without a predetermined duration

You may even fall victim to the "[peeking problem](https://gopractice.io/data/peeking-problem/)": when you check the intermediate results for statistical significance, make decisions based on them, and end your experiment too early. Without determining how long your experiment should run, you cannot differentiate between intermediate and final results.

Alternatively, if you do not have enough statistical power (i.e., not enough users to obtain a significant result), you'll potentially waste weeks waiting for results. This is especially common in [group-targeted experiments](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests).

> The solution is to use an A/B test running time calculator to determine if you have the required statistical power to run your experiment and for how long you should run your experiment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The solution is to use an A/B test running time calculator to determine if you have the required statistical power to run your experiment and for how long you should run your experiment. This is built into PostHog.
```

## 4. Running an experiment without testing it first

Sometimes we are so eager to get results from our experiments that we jump straight into running it with all our users. This may be okay if everything is set up correctly, but if you've made a mistake, you may be unable to rerun your experiment. Let's look at why this is:

Imagine you're running an experiment with a 50/50 split between control and test. You roll out the experiment to all your users, but a day after launch, you notice that your change is causing the app to crash for all test users. You immediately stop the experiment and fix the root cause of the crash. However, restarting the experiment now will produce unreliable results since many users have already seen your change.

To avoid this problem, you should first test your experiment with a small rollout (e.g., 5% of users) for a few days. Once you're confident everything works correctly, you can start the experiment with the remaining users.

Here is a list of what to check during your test rollout:
* No increase in crashes or other errors.
* Logging is working correctly.

> * Use [screen replays](/session-replay) to ensure your app is behaving as expected.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Use [session replays](/session-replay) to ensure your app is behaving as expected.  
```

* If the color change didn't increase button clicks, the page may have a different issue.
* If the number of button clicks increased but the number of purchases did not, there may be an issue with the checkout page.

## 8. Relying too much on A/B tests for decision-making

Not everything that can be measured matters. Not everything that matters can be measured. It's important to remember that there can be other reasons for shipping things besides for metric changes, such as solving user pain points or creating enjoyable user experiences.

[Raquel](/handbook/company/team), one of our growth engineers here at PostHog, shares an example:

> We ran an experiment on our sign-up page to make our social login buttons more prominent (e.g., "Sign up with Google" and "Sign up with GitHub") instead of signing up with email and password. While more people signed up using Google and Github, overall sign-ups didn't increase and nor did activation. 
> 
> Ultimately, we decided to ship the change since we felt that social login lower frictions and provides a better user experience.

> >

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

---
title: 5 A/B testing mistakes and how to avoid them
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']
date: 2023-04-24
featuredImage: todo
tags: ['experimentation']

> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
date: 2023-04-24
title: "5 A/B testing mistakes and how to avoid them"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']
featuredImage: todo
featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags: 
  - Guides
---

Reviewer 2: This is the correct frontmatter for the blog

> Making a mistake in an A/B test can have disastrous implications. At best, it means you've wasted weeks waiting for results that are not useful. At worst, it can lead you to make the wrong product decisions. This blog post will explore five common A/B testing mistakes to avoid to ensure successful experiments!

Reviewer 3: To be more realistic, at best nothing happens. Worst case can be very bad though. I'm sure there are examples of A/B tests that have cost companies tons.

Author: > To be more realistic, at best nothing happens. 

I disagree :) From my experience, time wasted is more accurate

>  I'm sure there are examples of A/B tests that have cost companies tons.

Interesting idea. I looked into adding an example here of a costly mistake, but after adding it I feel its better to just dive straight into the blog

> ## 1. Not having a clear hypothesis

Reviewer 2: Rather than saying "Not doing X", it would be better to say "Testing a bad hypothesis" or something like that. "Not xyz" feels a bit clumsy to read.

Having a clear definition of what you are testing and why you are testing it will help you determine which metrics to measure and analyze. To understand this better, let's look at an example of a bad hypothesis:

> Bad Hypothesis: Changing the color of the "Proceed to checkout" button will increase purchases.

This is bad since it's unclear why we're testing this change and why we expect it to increase purchases. As a result, it's not clear what we need to measure in this experiment. Do we only need to count button clicks? Or is there something else we need to measure?

Here's an improved version:

> > Good hypothesis: User research showed that users are unsure of how to proceed to the checkout page. Changing the button's color will lead to more users noticing it and thus more people will proceed to the checkout page. This will then lead to more purchases.

Reviewer 2: This is good, but can we come up with a more B2B example than button color?

Reviewer 3: - user invites
- billing page
- onboarding 
could all be options instead

It's now clear that we need to measure the following: 
* Button clicks, to show if the change in color leads to more people noticing the button
* Number of purchases, since more people arriving at the checkout page should mean more purchases

This also makes it easier to investigate the experiment results, especially when they are not what we expected. For example:
* If the color change didn't increase button clicks, there may be a different issue on the page.
* If the number of button clicks increased but the number of purchases did not, there may be an issue with the checkout page.

> ## 2. Not monitoring counter metrics

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 2. Ignoring secondary metrics
```
We use this term in app.

Author: Counter metrics are different from secondary metrics (although they are a type of secondary metrics). Counter metrics measure negative effects specifically, while other secondary metrics can may also measure positive effects

Counter metrics measure unintended negative side-effects in your experiments. If you do not monitor them, you may accidentally roll out changes that result in a worse user experience. 

> For example, say you're testing a change in the number of marketing emails you send to your users. While the change may increase the number of visitors to your site, it may also increase the number of users who unsubscribe from your mailing list. In this case, the unsubscribe rate is a good counter metric to keep track of.

Reviewer 2: Similar to previous comment. Given our ICP, better to use a product example than a marketing one.

Reviewer 3: Onboard messaging would work better. I would also generally avoid email as an A/B test example because we don't really handle that well, it is mostly handled by email platforms.

Author: thanks! updated

> ## 3. Not testing experiment setup with a small rollout

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## 3. Rolling out an experiment without testing
```

Sometimes we are so eager to get results from our experiments that we jump straight into testing it with all our users. This may be okay if everything is set up correctly, but if you've made a mistake, you may not be able to rerun your experiment. Let's look at why this is:

Imagine you're an experiment with a 50/50 split between control and test. You roll out the experiment to all your users, but a day after launch you notice that your change is causing the app to crash for all test users. You immediately stop the experiment and fix the root cause of the crash. However, restarting the experiment now will produce unreliable results since many users have already seen your change.

> To avoid this problem, you should first test your experiment with a small rollout (e.g., 5% of users) for a few days. Once you're confident everything works correctly, you can start the experiment with the remaining users.

Reviewer 3: You could mention that at PostHog, we always test in production ourselves and using our internal team before rolling out further.

## 4. Including unaffected users in your experiment

> Another common mistake in A/B testing is counting users in your experiment who aren't actually affected by the change you're testing. This can happen if you're not careful in how and when you assign users to the control and test groups. It dilutes your experiment results, making it harder to determine the impact of your changes. 

Reviewer 2: This feels like a strong example. I'd put it further up the list.

To see how, let's look at an example: Say you're testing a new feature in your app that rewards users for completing a certain action. You mistakenly included users who have already completed the action in the experiment. Since they are not affected by the change, any metrics related to this action do not change, and thus the results for this experiment may not show a statistically significant change.

To avoid this mistake, make sure to first filter out ineligible users in your code before including them in your experiment. Below is an example of how to do this:

> ```javascript

Reviewer 3: We should use PostHog in the code example, even if it is just `posthog.isFeatureEnabled('keyword')`

// Incorrect. Will include unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {
  if (user.getExperimentVariantGroup() === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks
  ...

  return true
}
```

```javascript
// Correct. Will exclude unaffected users
function showNewChanges(user) {

  if (user.hasCompletedAction) {
    return false
  }

  // other checks
  ...

  if (user.getExperimentVariantGroup() === 'control') {
    return false;
  }

  return true
}
```

## 5. Not determining experiment duration in advance

> Not checking your statistical power and not predetermining the duration of your experiment can lead to problems. In the scenario where you don't have enough statistical power (i.e., not enough users to obtain a significant result), you'll end up potentially wasting time waiting for results. Alternatively, you may even fall victim to the "[peeking problem](https://gopractice.io/data/peeking-problem/)": when you check the intermediate results for statistical significance and make decisions based on them. Without defining your experiment run time, you cannot differentiate between intermediate and final results.

Reviewer 3: peeking problem is a nice ideas

Thus the solution is to use an A/B test running time calculator to determine if you have the required statistical power to run your experiment and for how long you should run your experiment.

![Setting up a new experiment in PostHog includes a recommended running time calculator](../images/blog/ab-testing-mistakes/minimum-acceptable-improvement.png)

> <Caption>Setting up a new experiment in PostHog includes a recommended running time calculator</Caption>

Reviewer 3: Ideas for outro:
- What do we do at PostHog to prevent these mistakes?
- What features of PostHog help prevent these mistakes?
- Why you should care about preventing mistakes? What can happen if you have sloppy A/B testing practices?
